**CFP for the Modernist Studies Association's Annual Conference**

**MIGRATION**

**Chicago, November 4-7, 2021**

The city of Chicago was a major destination of the Great Migration, the
mass exodus of African Americans from the Jim Crow South to the
industrial centers of the North from 1916-1970. In the wake of the 2016
presidential election and ensuing developments in U.S. immigration
policy, Chicago has been declared a sanctuary city for migrants and
asylum-seekers. The MSA 2021 conference on Migration in Chicago aims to
highlight the creativity, energy, and inspiration that the Great
Migration brought to the city's modernist culture, but also the
racialized discrimination and persecution that confronted African
American migrants in Chicago and other northern and western
destinations. In addition to domestic migration, our conference invites
new work on the making of the American city by waves of immigrants from
Europe, Latin America, Asia, and Africa---in the case of Chicago, from
the trading post of founding settler Jean Baptiste Point du Sable to the
city's famous lakefront skyline and its world-class museums,
universities, libraries, concert halls, theaters, and jazz and blues
clubs. To accompany the conference the Newberry Library has scheduled an
exhibition, "Chicago Avant-Garde," curated by Liesl Olson, which will
showcase the radical experimental culture that emerged in Chicago across
a range of artistic media during the first half of the twentieth
century, focusing on the contributions of women to this cultural
efflorescence.

MSA 2021 will take place in the historic Drake Hotel, located on
Chicago's beautiful lakeshore near many of the city's attractions and
safe, convenient public transportation for destinations further afield.
Renamed "The Drayton," the Drake inspired an early scene in Nella
Larsen's 1929 novel *Passing* in which two mixed race women, both
passing as white, risk exposure and expulsion by taking tea on the
Drake's whites-only roof terrace. This terrace is now long gone, along
with the segregation rules that limited its clientele to whites. But the
racialized discrimination dramatized in *Passing*, which shaped
Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods, persists in downtown Chicago amidst the
glamorous stores of the Magnificent Mile and the city's vibrant
restaurant scene, itself a beneficiary of migration. Though we chose the
Migration theme and the Chicago venue long before the pandemic, the many
interrelated crises of 2020 make it abundantly clear that the history of
migration is far from past but profoundly shapes the present and future
of American cities.

Participants are invited to understand migration as a capacious term,
enabling new conversations about the Great Migration, migration from
abroad, the current global migration crisis, and the impact of these
demographic movements on modernist innovation in literature, drama,
music, art, architecture, and design in the twentieth- and
twentieth-first centuries. Taken metaphorically, the theme of migration
also embraces translation, transmission, transmediality,
transnationalism, transgenderism, transraciality, and transference---the
"carrying across" in all senses that the Greek root of meta-phor
suggests.

As part of the MSA's initiative to promote a more diverse Association,
the 2020 conference will feature five streams of interrelated
interdisciplinary panels. Each stream solicits proposals for individual
papers and aims to attract a wide range of scholarly and critical
perspectives.

Plenary events will include a **Keynote lecture by Hortense Spillers
(**Vanderbilt University) and a **Keynote panel on Modernism and the
Great Migration in Chicago** chaired by **Liesl Olson (**Newberry
Library), with discussants **Kenneth Warren** (University of Chicago)
and **Adrienne Brown (**University of Chicago).

**Participation**

So as to involve as many people as possible as active participants, the
MSA limits appearances on the program to one in each category below:

-   Seminar, either as leader or as participant

-   Panel or roundtable, as participant (you may also chair a different
    panel or roundtable)

-   Digital exhibition

-   "What Are You Reading?" session

In other words, you may organize a seminar, present a paper on a panel,
register for a workshop, mount a digital exhibition, and participate in
a "What Are You Reading" session, but you may not present two papers on
panels.

MSA rules preclude panel or roundtable organizers from chairing sessions
in which they are presenting a paper or substantive remarks. You may
chair as many sessions as you like, so long as you observe this rule.

Panel organizers are asked to identify a chair and to include this
information with their proposals. The MSA Program Committee can ask
conference attendees to chair panels without pre-designated chairs, but
we urge participants to choose their own chairs.

All those who attend the MSA conference must be members of the
organization with dues paid for 2020-2021 (MSA membership runs from July
1 until June 30 each year) and any past dues paid in full. For
information on MSA, please consult the [Association
website](https://msa.press.jhu.edu/). Except in cases pre-approved by
the program committee, MSA speakers are generally expected to present in
person, rather than remotely. The MSA21 organizers will revisit this
rule as pandemic conditions and advisories continue to unfold.

**Call for Seminar Proposals**

**Deadline: February 5, 2021 (Friday)**

Seminars are a highly valued feature of the MSA conference. Participants
write brief position papers (5-7 pages) that are circulated and read by
all participants prior to the conference. Each seminar is limited to 15
participants. Two hours in length, the Seminars generate lively exchange
and often facilitate future collaborations. The seminar format also
allows a larger number of conference attendees to seek financial support
from their institutions as they educate themselves and share their
research and pedagogical interests. The MSA encourages seminar leaders
to draw together scholars from a diverse range of institutions and at
various ranks, including graduate students, postdoctoral fellows,
contingent faculty, and independent scholars. **Please note:** this is
the call for proposals by *seminar leaders*. Seminar participants will
sign up on a first-come, first-served basis when registering for the
conference.

Seminar Topics: There are no limits on topics, but they should be
clearly defined and capacious enough to interest many participants.
Experience has shown that the more guidance the leader provides, the
more productive the discussion. To review past seminar topics, go to the
Conference Archives on the MSA website, click the link to a prior
conference, and then click on "Conference Schedule" or "Conference
Program." You will find seminars listed along with panels and other
events.â€¨

Please include a brief (**300**-word) description of seminar purpose and
format. Seminar leaders' bios are limited to **100** words.

Submit seminar proposals by **Friday 5 February 2021** at
msa2021.exordo.com.

**Call for Individual Paper Proposals for MSA Panel Streams**

**Deadline: April 9, 2021 (Friday)**

Individual paper proposals must speak directly to one of this year's
streams, which link several panels or roundtables that will take place
on different days of the conference. Successful proposals will
demonstrate the promise to advance new research or ideas relative to the
designated topics of the streams. The MSA Program Committee will vet
individual proposals and organize them into panels and roundtables as
appropriate. Conference organizers may also solicit papers and groups of
papers for streams.

Please include a **300**-word abstract of the paper. Author bios are
limited to **100** words.

Submit individual paper proposals for panel streams by **Friday April 9,
2021** at msa2021.exordo.com.

**Stream Topics**

**The Great Migration**

MSA 2021 in Chicago aims to commemorate the Great Migration, which
brought hundreds of thousands of African Americans to the city to escape
racist violence in the Jim Crow South. Although Chicago was scarcely a
safe haven and remains a deeply segregated city, blighted like other
American cities by systemic racism, ethnic discrimination, and police
violence, many African American refugees helped to create the Black
Chicago Renaissance in the mid-twentieth century. Migrants from the
South who contributed to this Renaissance included musicians such as
Mahalia Jackson, Muddy Waters, Howlin' Wolf, Jelly Roll Morton, Buddy
Guy, Jimmy Reed, and Sun Ra; writers such as Richard Wright, Margaret
Walker, William Attaway, and Ida B. Wells; and visual artists such as
Archibald Motley, Eldzier Cortor, and Gus Nall. As the Great Migration
brought artists who helped to create a distinctive Chicago modernism, it
also transformed the culture of other cities in the United States.
Papers in this stream may focus on any of the destinations of the Great
Migration and on its wide-ranging cultural reverberations.

**Modernism and the archive**

Recent work in modernist studies has addressed black radicalism and the
archive, issues of race and publishing, black book design, and narrating
forms of intimate life through the use of archives, as in Saidiya
Hartman's *Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments: Intimate Histories of
Social Upheaval*. This stream invites papers on the modernist "archive"
as a concept and a form of institutional power as well as on specific
"archives" in all their plurality and contingency, including community
archives, personal archives, indigenous archives, and the evolving
protocols pertaining to archiving such recent events as Barack Obama's
history of activism in Chicago, and the present crises of pandemic and
protest (for instance, [the Blackivists'
statement](https://sixtyinchesfromcenter.org/the-blackivists-five-tips-for-organizers-protestors-and-anyone-documenting-movements/)).
Participants might also consider the relationship between archives and
storytelling, between empirical documentation and narrative form, and
between lost or silenced histories, obliterated records, and fictional
narrative.

**Translations**

This stream invites participants to consider how translation across
languages and cultures influences the arts of modernism. Papers may also
address translations as a wider category that includes passing,
crossovers, hybridizations, and palimpsestic overlays between
ethnicities, races, nationalities, locales, historical moments, genders,
identities, genres, and media. Other forms of trans-ness, such as
psychoanalytic transference or the transmission of affect, could also
fall under this rubric.

**Climate and Ecological Change**

Climate change and ecological depredation have created urgent conditions
for migration in the past, present, and foreseeable future. Other
causes, such as poverty, war, and persecution, stem at least in part
from these environmental crises. This stream invites participants to
think about these crises in relation to migration, though papers on any
aspect of modern environmental change will also be considered. In
addition to the movement of people(s), the movement of plants and
animals and their effects on host environments are also relevant to this
stream.

**Arts of Migration**

Many different forms of art and literature take migration as their theme
or impetus. While the stream on "The Great Migration" focuses on the
United States, "Arts of Migration" invites papers on transnational and
other kinds of migration and its impact on writing, architecture,
design, music, the visual arts, foodways, sports, and other forms of
cultural expression. Examples include the migration of Bauhaus
aesthetics to the United States, which was spearheaded by emigres like
Mies van der Rohe; the exile of the major figures of the Frankfurt
School to Los Angeles; the transplantation of the right-wing Austrian
School of economics to New York City and Hyde Park Chicago. Participants
are encouraged to consider how migration transforms the culture of the
host country by introducing influences from abroad, and how the host
country in turn indigenizes imported traditions.

**Call for Panel Proposals**

**Deadline: April 9, 2021 (Friday)**

We invite panels that promise to expand research and debate on a topic
and present a clear rationale for the papers' collective goal. Panel
proposals that engage recent research-grounded discovery and debate,
exciting new approaches, or theoretical interventions are encouraged.
Topics need not address the conference theme. Please be sure to
characterize in your proposal what each paper contributes individually
and how it fits into a cohesive session.

> â€¢ We encourage interdisciplinary panels and generally discourage
> panels on single authors.
>
> â€¢ In order to allow for discussion, preference will be given to panels
> with three participants (20 minutes each), though panels of four will
> be considered (15 minutes each).
>
> â€¢ Panels composed entirely of participants from a single department at
> a single institution are not likely to be accepted.
>
> â€¢ The MSA encourages panels comprising scholars from a diverse range
> of institutions and of various ranks, including graduate students,
> postdoctoral fellows, contingent faculty, and independent scholars.
>
> â€¢ Please elect an appropriate chair for your panel if possible and
> include this information as part of your proposal. Otherwise, the
> program committee will recruit a chair for you.

Please include a **300-500**-word abstract of the session. Author bios
are limited to **100** words.

Submit panel proposals by **Friday 10 April 9, 2021** at
msa2021.exordo.com.

**Call for Roundtable Proposals**

**Deadline: April 9, 2021 (Friday)**

All topics will be considered for roundtables. Unlike panels, which
generally feature a sequence of 15-20-minute talks followed by
discussion, roundtables gather a group of participants around a shared
concern in order to generate discussion among the participants and with
the audience. To this end, instead of delivering full-length papers,
presenters are asked to deliver [short position statements]{.ul} in
response to questions distributed in advance by the organizer, or to
take turns responding to prompts from the moderator. [The bulk of the
session should be devoted to discussion]{.ul}. No paper titles are
listed in the program, only the names of participants.

Please bear in mind these guidelines:

> â€¢ Roundtables may feature as many as 6 speakers but are more likely to
> be accepted if they include 4 or 5.
>
> â€¢ Roundtable organizers should discourage participants from writing
> formal papers and to be as brief and concise as possible, ideally
> speaking for no more than 5 minutes at a time in order to facilitate
> discussion.
>
> â€¢ We particularly welcome roundtables that include participants from
> multiple disciplines, and we discourage roundtables on single authors.
>
> â€¢ The MSA encourages roundtables comprising scholars from a diverse
> range of institutions and of various ranks, including graduate
> students, postdoctoral fellows, contingent faculty, and independent
> scholars.
>
> â€¢ Graduate students are actively encouraged as speakers, but a
> roundtable composed entirely of graduate students is less likely to be
> accepted than one with a mix of academic ranks.

Please include a **300-500**-word abstract of the session. Participants'
bios are limited to **100** words each.

Submit roundtable proposals by **Friday April 9, 2021** at
msa2021.exordo.com.

**Call for Workshop Proposals**

**Deadline: April 23, 2021 (Friday)**

Workshops focus on topics related to professional life, such as
publishing, teaching, the job market, mid-career challenges and
opportunities, research and the liberal arts college, and
alternative/non-academic jobs, and how best to ensure the future of the
profession. Popular workshops in previous years have been on topics such
as "What Do Presses Want from a First Book?," "Digital Approaches to
Modernism," and "Critical Writing." Participation in a workshop does not
limit participation in other aspects of the conference.

Workshops should be participatory in format and can be either 90 or 120
minutes in length. They may be led by one person or by a panel of
experts. **Please note** that this call is for *workshop leaders*.
Participants will register for workshops at the same time as conference
registration.

Please include a brief (**200-**word) description of workshop purpose
and format. Participants' bios are limited to **100** words.

Submit workshop proposals by **Friday April 23, 2021** at
msa2021.exordo.com.

**Call for Digital Exhibits and Posters**

**Deadline: April 23, 2021 (Friday)**

Reflecting the increasing importance. of the digital humanities in
modernist studies and the proliferation of innovative work that does not
lend itself to presentation in the form of a scholarly paper, we invite
proposals that provide a short overview (including web links) of 1) the
nature, design, and purpose of a digital project; 2) how the project
advances modernist studies; and 3) how the presenters plan to exhibit
and explain the project at the conference. Be sure to list all
participants and institutions involved in the project and specify who
among these would attend the conference.

Please include a **300**-word abstract. Presenter bios are limited to
**100** words.

Submit digital exhibit and poster session proposals by **Friday 24 April
2020** at msa2021.exordo.com.

**Conference Access**

The MSA is committed to ensuring that all conference registrants will be
able to participate in conference events.

We ask that all conference attendees give thought to questions of access
and work with the conference organizers to create an event that is
welcoming to the entire community of participants.

If you would benefit from individual accommodations including, but not
limited to, ASL translation, paper copies of session presentations, or
large type documents, please contact the conference organizers.

**Statement on Inclusion**

The Modernist Studies Association supports the rights and dignity of all
persons associated with our organization and conference. We hold that
inclusivity, diversity, access, and equality are critical to the
strength of our organization and the effectiveness of our academic
mission. In the spirit of maintaining a welcoming and inclusive
organization, we urge our participants to use individuals' preferred
names and pronouns when introducing speakers and in citing their work or
ideas.
